docs/shared/guides/module-federation/faster-builds.md, before:

# Faster Builds with Module Federation

As applications grow, builds can become unacceptably slow, which leads to slow CI/CD pipelines and long dev-server startup times. This slowness
decrease team productivity due to long waits for local compilation, and clogged up CI/CD pipelines.

Module Federation provides a solution to the scaling problem by allowing a Single Page Application (SPA) to be sliced into multiple smaller
remote applications that are built independently. There are some costs to slicing an application through Module Federation:

- Cognitive overhead of developing multiple applications versus a SPA.
- Coordinating build and deployment across many applications is a huge headache, especially in a multi-repo setup.
- Version-Mismatch-Hell where different applications are deployed with different versions of shared libraries can lead to unexpected errors.

Nx provides the best experience for teams that want faster builds, but want to also minimize the downsides that come with Module Federation. Starting in Nx 14,
we provide specialized generators, executors, and utilities that make Module Federation easy to set up and work with.

## When should I use Module Federation?

Whether Module Federation makes sense for your team depends on the size of your application. Although Nx hides most of the complexity around Module Federation, it still comes with some downsides:

- Developers need to think about which remotes they are working on, since it is a waste of CPU and memory to run _all_ remotes in development mode. In practice this may not be a problem if the teams are already divided by domain or feature.
- Increased orchestration since remotes are independent of each other, shared state may require the host application to coordinate it between remotes. For example, sharing Redux state across remotes is more complicated versus a SPA.

## Architectural overview

With Module Federation, a large application is split into:

1. A single **Host** application that references external...
2. **Remote** applications, which handle a single domain or feature.

In the next section, we will see an example with a host app (`shell`) and three remotes (`shop`, `cart`, `about`). Although all the applications are independently built, thus have no dependency between them, conceptually you can think of them in the following hierarchy.

![Shell with implicit dependencies to remotes](/shared/guides/module-federation/dep-graph.png)

## Creating an example workspace

The best way to understand the setup is through an example. In this section, we will create a `shell` (host) application with three remotes under these routes:

1. `/shop`
1. `/cart`
1. `/about`

First, create an empty Nx workspace.

```bash
# Replace acme with desired scope
npx create-nx-workspace acme --preset=empty
cd acme
```

**Note:** You will be prompted to enable Nx Cloud in the workspace. For the best experience, we highly recommend using Nx Cloud to take advantage of distributed caching and other features it provides. We'll discuss this [later in the guide](#distributed-caching-with-nx-cloud).

Then, for React users, install the `@nrwl/react` plugin; and for Angular users, install the `@nrwl/angular` plugin.

```bash
# If you use React
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/react

# If you use Angular
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/angular

# Or with yarn
yarn add --dev @nrwl/react
yarn add --dev @nrwl/angular
```

Next, generate the host and remote applications.

```bash
# React
nx g @nrwl/react:host shell --remotes=shop,cart,about

#a Angular
nx g @nrwl/angular:host shell --remotes=shop,cart,about
```

**Note:** You can leave off the `--remotes` option and add them later with `nx g @nrwl/react:remote shop --host=shell` or `nx g @nrwl/angular:remote shop --host=shell`.

Now, serve `shell` to view it in your browser.

```bash
nx serve shell --open
```

The above command serve `shell` in development mode, whereas the remotes are built and served statically. That is, changes to `shell` will update its bundle, but changes to remotes will not update.

To run one or more remotes in development mode, use the `--devRemotes` option.

```bash
nx serve shell --open --devRemotes=shop,cart
```

The above command will start the `shop` and `cart` remotes in development mode, but `about` will remain static.

## What was generated?

To understand how Module Federation works with Nx, let's take a look at three files that control this feature.

### `apps/shell/project.json`

The `build` target uses `@nrwl/web:webpack` for React, and `@nrwl/angular:webpack-browser` for Angular. This is the same as a normal SPA that uses custom webpack configuration (`webpackConfig`), but difference is in the webpack configuration file.

We also encourage you do create implicit dependencies between the host to all the remotes it references. This has a benefit when [building the host](#production-build-and-deployment), and also allows distributed task execution to work. To create these dependencies, add the `implicitDependencies` configuration.

```json5
// apps/shell/project.json
{
  //...
  implicitDependencies: ['about', 'shop', 'cart'],
}
```

In the future, Nx may automatically handle this for you.

### `apps/shell/webpack.config.js`

The webpack configuration uses an utility function that Nx provides: `withModuleFederation`.

```js
// For Angular, you'll see `@nrwl/angular/module-federation`
const withModuleFederation = require('@nrwl/react/module-federation');
const moduleFederationConfig = require('./module-federation.config');

module.exports = withModuleFederation({
  ...moduleFederationConfig,
});
```

We'll talk about [what `withModuleFederation` does](#what-does-withmodulefederation-do) in a bit, but for now the important part of the configuration is the use of `module-federation.config.js` which we will examine next.

### `apps/shell/module-federation.config.js`

This file is the main configuration for the `shell`, and you'll see `module-federation.config.js` for the generated remotes as well.

```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'shell',
  remotes: ['shop', 'cart', 'about'],
};
```

The required `name` property is the magic to link the host and remotes together. Since `shell` is a host, it references the three remotes by their names.

**Note:** It is important that the values in `remotes` property matches the `name` property of the remote applications. Otherwise, webpack will throw an error. Nx handles this automatically for you so there shouldn't be an issue unless it was modified manually.

## What does `withModuleFederation` do?

In the previous section, we saw `withModuleFederation` used in the webpack config. This function is an abstraction on top of webpack's `ModuleFederationPlugin` with some Nx-specific behavior.

- All libraries (npm and workspace) are shared singletons by default, so you don't manually configure them.
- Remotes are referenced by name only, since Nx knows which ports each remote is running on (in development mode).

With Nx, the developer experience (DX) when working with Module Federation matches more closely to development on a SPA. You don't have to worry about managing a bunch of configuration, and most things just work out of the box.

### Overriding shared library config

If you want to opt-out of the shared, singleton behavior of libraries you can use the `shared: (libraryName, sharedConfig) => sharedConfig)` option in `module-federation.config.js`.

```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'shell',
  remotes: ['shop', 'cart', 'about'],
  shared: (name, config) => {
    if (name === 'react' || name === 'react-dom') {
      // If you want to relax strictness
      return { ...config, strictVersion: false };
    }
  },
};
```

The `shared` function can return a [shared config](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/module-federation-plugin/#sharing-hints) that webpack supports, `undefined` to use Nx's default value, or `false` to exclude it from being shared.

**Note:** We discourage users from overriding the shared configuration. If you have any feedback regarding this feature, we'd love to hear from you--check our [community page](https://nx.dev/community) for links to our Slack and Twitter.

## Distributed caching with Nx Cloud

Module Federation works best when Nx Cloud is enabled in the workspace. If you haven't enabled it yet when using `create-nx-workspace`, you can do the following.

```bash
# Install the package
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/nx-cloud
# Or through yarn
yarn add --dev @nrwl/nx-cloud

# Then enable cloud in the workspace
nx g @nrwl/nx-cloud:init
```

With Nx Cloud enabled, a large set of builds can be skipped entirely when running the application locally (and in CI/CD). When you run builds through Nx + Nx Cloud, the artifacts are stored in the distributed cache, so as long as the source hasn't changed, the application can be served from cache.

You can see this behavior locally if you serve the `shell` twice.

```bash
nx serve shell

# (kill server)

nx serve shell
```

The second serve should start up much faster, because the three remotes (`shop`, `cart`, `about`) are read from cache. Not only that, any other copy of the workspace will also benefit from the cache if they are on the same branch as you are.

If you inspect the terminal output, you'll see something like this, even if you are on different machines.

```bash
> nx run about:build:development  [existing outputs match the cache, left as is]

 (snip)

 >  NX   Successfully ran target build for project about

   Nx read the output from the cache instead of running the command for 1 out of 1 tasks.

```

This caching behavior is _crucial_ for things like end-to-end (E2E) testing because testing against a static server is much more efficient than starting many servers in development mode. When the CI pipeline runs E2E tests, it should be be reading from caching, since you've already run the server locally.

## Production build and deployment

In order to make building and deploying easier, we recommend adding implicit dependencies from `shell` to each remote. In case you didn't already set this up, add the following line to the `shell`'s project configuration.

```json5
// apps/shell/project.json
{
  //...
  implicitDependencies: ['about', 'shop', 'cart'],
}
```

Now you can run `nx build shell` to build all the `shell` and all the implicit dependencies in production mode. Again, if you have [Nx Cloud enabled](#distributed-caching-with-nx-cloud) then the build artifact will be in the distributed cache for other developers and CI/CD to read from.

After running that command you'll see the following artifacts in `dist` folder.

```treeview
dist/apps
├── about
├── cart
├── shell
└── shop
```

Now, we can add a simple deploy command to simulate deploying this folder to production.

```bash
nx g @nrwl/workspace:run-commands \
deploy \
--project=shell \
--command="rm -rf production && mkdir production && cp -r dist/apps/shell/* production && cp -r dist/apps/{shop,cart,about} production && http-server -p 3000 -a localhost production"
```

You can then run `nx deploy shell` to see the application running on `http://localhost:3000`. If you inspect the `production` folder you'll see the following files.

```treeview
production/
├── about
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── cart
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── shop
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── index.html
└── (snip)
```

The above command is just an example. You'll need to use what make sense for your team and workspace.

Commit message:

docs(core): update module federation guide (#9952)

docs/shared/guides/module-federation/faster-builds.md, after:

# Faster Builds with Module Federation

As applications grow, builds can become unacceptably slow, which leads to slow CI/CD pipelines and long dev-server startup times. This slowness
decrease team productivity due to long waits for local compilation, and clogged up CI/CD pipelines.

Module Federation provides a solution to the scaling problem by allowing a Single Page Application (SPA) to be sliced into multiple smaller
remote applications that are built independently. There are some costs to slicing an application through Module Federation:

- Cognitive overhead of developing multiple applications versus a SPA.
- Coordinating build and deployment across many applications is a huge headache, especially in a multi-repo setup.
- Version-Mismatch-Hell where different applications are deployed with different versions of shared libraries can lead to unexpected errors.

Nx provides the best experience for teams that want faster builds, but want to also minimize the downsides that come with Module Federation. Starting in Nx 14,
we provide specialized generators, executors, and utilities that make Module Federation easy to set up and work with.

## When should I use Module Federation?

Whether Module Federation makes sense for your team depends on the size of your application. Although Nx hides most of the complexity around Module Federation, it still comes with some downsides:

- Developers need to think about which remotes they are working on, since it is a waste of CPU and memory to run _all_ remotes in development mode. In practice this may not be a problem if the teams are already divided by domain or feature.
- Increased orchestration since remotes are independent of each other, shared state may require the host application to coordinate it between remotes. For example, sharing Redux state across remotes is more complicated versus a SPA.

## Architectural overview

With Module Federation, a large application is split into:

1. A single **Host** application that references external...
2. **Remote** applications, which handle a single domain or feature.

In the next section, we will see an example with a host app (`shell`) and three remotes (`shop`, `cart`, `about`). Although all the applications are independently built, thus have no dependency between them, conceptually you can think of them in the following hierarchy.

![Shell with implicit dependencies to remotes](/shared/guides/module-federation/dep-graph.png)

## Creating an example workspace

The best way to understand the setup is through an example. In this section, we will create a `shell` (host) application with three remotes under these routes:

1. `/shop`
1. `/cart`
1. `/about`

First, create an empty Nx workspace.

```bash
# Replace acme with desired scope
npx create-nx-workspace acme --preset=empty
cd acme
```

**Note:** You will be prompted to enable Nx Cloud in the workspace. For the best experience, we highly recommend using Nx Cloud to take advantage of distributed caching and other features it provides. We'll discuss this [later in the guide](#distributed-caching-with-nx-cloud).

Then, for React users, install the `@nrwl/react` plugin; and for Angular users, install the `@nrwl/angular` plugin.

```bash
# If you use React
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/react

# If you use Angular
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/angular

# Or with yarn
yarn add --dev @nrwl/react
yarn add --dev @nrwl/angular
```

Next, generate the host and remote applications.

```bash
# React
nx g @nrwl/react:host shell --remotes=shop,cart,about

#a Angular
nx g @nrwl/angular:host shell --remotes=shop,cart,about
```

**Note:** You can leave off the `--remotes` option and add them later with `nx g @nrwl/react:remote shop --host=shell` or `nx g @nrwl/angular:remote shop --host=shell`.

Now, serve `shell` to view it in your browser.

```bash
nx serve shell --open
```

The above command serves `shell` in development mode, whereas the remotes are built and served statically. That is, changes to `shell` will update its bundle, but changes to remotes will not update.

To run one or more remotes in development mode, use the `--devRemotes` option.

```bash
nx serve shell --open --devRemotes=shop,cart
```

The above command starts the `shop` and `cart` remotes in development mode, but `about` will remain static.

## What was generated?

To understand how Module Federation works with Nx, let's take a look at three files that control this feature.

### `apps/shell/project.json`

The `build` target uses `@nrwl/web:webpack` for React, and `@nrwl/angular:webpack-browser` for Angular. This is the same as a normal SPA that uses custom webpack configuration (`webpackConfig`), but difference is in the webpack configuration file.

We also encourage you do create implicit dependencies between the host to all the remotes it references. This has a benefit when [building the host](#production-build-and-deployment), and also allows distributed task execution to work. To create these dependencies, add the `implicitDependencies` configuration.

```text
// apps/shell/project.json
{
  //...
  "implicitDependencies": ["about", "shop", "cart"]
}
```

In the future, Nx may automatically handle this for you.

### `apps/shell/webpack.config.js`

The webpack configuration uses an utility function that Nx provides: `withModuleFederation`.

```js
// For Angular, you'll see `@nrwl/angular/module-federation`
const withModuleFederation = require('@nrwl/react/module-federation');
const moduleFederationConfig = require('./module-federation.config');

module.exports = withModuleFederation({
  ...moduleFederationConfig,
});
```

We'll talk about [what `withModuleFederation` does](#what-does-withmodulefederation-do) in a bit, but for now the important part of the configuration is the use of `module-federation.config.js` which we will examine next.

### `apps/shell/module-federation.config.js`

This file is the main configuration for the `shell`, and you'll see `module-federation.config.js` for the generated remotes as well.

```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'shell',
  remotes: ['shop', 'cart', 'about'],
};
```

The required `name` property is the magic to link the host and remotes together. Since `shell` is a host, it references the three remotes by their names.

**Note:** It is important that the values in `remotes` property matches the `name` property of the remote applications. Otherwise, webpack will throw an error. Nx handles this automatically for you so there shouldn't be an issue unless it was modified manually.

## What does `withModuleFederation` do?

In the previous section, we saw `withModuleFederation` used in the webpack config. This function is an abstraction on top of webpack's `ModuleFederationPlugin` with some Nx-specific behavior.

- All libraries (npm and workspace) are shared singletons by default, so you don't manually configure them.
- Remotes are referenced by name only, since Nx knows which ports each remote is running on (in development mode).

With Nx, the developer experience (DX) when working with Module Federation matches more closely to development on a SPA. You don't have to worry about managing a bunch of configuration, and most things just work out of the box.

### Overriding shared library config

If you want to opt-out of the shared, singleton behavior of libraries you can use the `shared: (libraryName, sharedConfig) => sharedConfig)` option in `module-federation.config.js`.

```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'shell',
  remotes: ['shop', 'cart', 'about'],
  shared: (name, config) => {
    if (name === 'react' || name === 'react-dom') {
      // If you want to relax strictness
      return { ...config, strictVersion: false };
    }
  },
};
```

The `shared` function can return a [shared config](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/module-federation-plugin/#sharing-hints) that webpack supports, `undefined` to use Nx's default value, or `false` to exclude it from being shared.

**Note:** We discourage users from overriding the shared configuration. If you have any feedback regarding this feature, we'd love to hear from you--check our [community page](https://nx.dev/community) for links to our Slack and Twitter.

## Distributed caching with Nx Cloud

Module Federation works best when Nx Cloud is enabled in the workspace. If you haven't enabled it yet when using `create-nx-workspace`, you can do the following.

```bash
# Install the package
npm install --save-dev @nrwl/nx-cloud
# Or through yarn
yarn add --dev @nrwl/nx-cloud

# Then enable cloud in the workspace
nx g @nrwl/nx-cloud:init
```

With Nx Cloud enabled, a large set of builds can be skipped entirely when running the application locally (and in CI/CD). When you run builds through Nx + Nx Cloud, the artifacts are stored in the distributed cache, so as long as the source hasn't changed, the application can be served from cache.

You can see this behavior locally if you serve the `shell` twice.

```bash
nx serve shell

# (kill server)

nx serve shell
```

The second serve should start up much faster, because the three remotes (`shop`, `cart`, `about`) are read from cache. Not only that, any other copy of the workspace will also benefit from the cache if they are on the same branch as you are.

If you inspect the terminal output, you'll see something like this, even if you are on different machines.

```bash
> nx run about:build:development  [existing outputs match the cache, left as is]

 (snip)

 >  NX   Successfully ran target build for project about

   Nx read the output from the cache instead of running the command for 1 out of 1 tasks.

```

This caching behavior is _crucial_ for things like end-to-end (E2E) testing because testing against a static server is much more efficient than starting many servers in development mode. When the CI pipeline runs E2E tests, it should be be reading from caching, since you've already run the server locally.

## Production build and deployment

In this section, we'll examine how to set up your production build and simulate a deployment to `http://localhost:3000`.

In order to make building and deploying easier, we recommend adding implicit dependencies from `shell` to each remote. In case you didn't already set this up, add the following line to the `shell`'s project configuration.

```text
// apps/shell/project.json
{
  //...
  "implicitDependencies": ["about", "shop", "cart"]
}
```

Next, open up the production webpack configuration file and update the remote URLs to their own subfolder under `http://localhost:3000`.

```js
// apps/shell/webpack.config.prod.js
const withModuleFederation = require('@nrwl/react/module-federation');
const moduleFederationConfig = require('./module-federation.config');

module.exports = withModuleFederation({
  ...moduleFederationConfig,
  remotes: [
    ['shop', 'http://localhost:3000/shop'],
    ['cart', 'http://localhost:3000/cart'],
    ['about', 'http://localhost:3000/about'],
  ],
});
```

Now you can run `nx build shell` to build all the `shell` and all the implicit dependencies in production mode. Again, if you have [Nx Cloud enabled](#distributed-caching-with-nx-cloud) then the build artifact will be in the distributed cache for other developers and CI/CD to read from.

After running that command you'll see the following artifacts in `dist` folder.

```treeview
dist/apps
├── about
├── cart
├── shell
└── shop
```

Now, we can add a simple deploy command to simulate deploying this folder to production.

```bash
nx g @nrwl/workspace:run-commands \
deploy \
--project=shell \
--command="rm -rf production && mkdir production && cp -r dist/apps/shell/* production && cp -r dist/apps/{shop,cart,about} production && http-server -p 3000 -a localhost production"
```

You can then run `nx deploy shell` to see the application running on `http://localhost:3000`. If you inspect the `production` folder you'll see the following files.

```treeview
production/
├── about
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── cart
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── shop
│   ├── remoteEntry.js
│   └── (snip)
├── index.html
└── (snip)
```

The above command is just an example. You'll need to use what make sense for your team and workspace.
